What is Git ?

Git is a free and open source distributed version control system designed to handle everything from small to very large projects with speed and efficiency.

What is GitHub?

GitHub is a Git repository hosting service that provides a web-based graphical interface (GUI). It helps every team member work together on a project from anywhere,
making it easy to collaborate. 

Commands :-

	git init - Create an empty Git repository or reinitialize an existing one.This creates a new subdirectory named .Git , 
		   that contains all of your necessary repository files — a Git repository skeleton. 
	
	git add  - The git add command is used to add file contents to the Index (Staging Area).This command updates the current content of the working tree to the staging area. 
		   It also prepares the staged content for the next commit. 	

			git add <File name>  

	git status - The git status command is used to display the state of the repository and staging area. It allows us to see the tracked, untracked files and changes.
			
			git status		     	
		
	git commit - The commit command performs a commit, and the -m "message" adds a message.
			
			git commit -m "my 1st commit" filename
			
		     The Staging Environment has been committed to our repo, with the message:"my 1st commit"	

	git log	   - To view the history of commits for a repository, you can use the log command.
	
			git log
	
	git config - Git allows you to set a global and per-project username and email address. You can set or change your git identity using the git config command. 
	             Changes only affect future commits.

			i) To set your global username/email configuration:

				Set your username:
				git config --global user.name "FIRST_NAME LAST_NAME"

				Set your email address:
				git config --global user.email "MY_NAME@example.com"

			ii) To set repository-specific username/email configuration:

				Set your username:
				git config user.name "FIRST_NAME LAST_NAME"

				Set your email address:
				git config user.email "MY_NAME@example.com"

			Verify your configuration by displaying your configuration file:
			cat .git/config		

	git clone  - The git clone command is used to create a copy of a specific repository or branch within a repository.
	
			git clone https://github.com/github/training-kit.git

		     When you clone a repository, you don't get one file, like you may in other centralized version control systems. 
		     By cloning with Git, you get the entire repository - all files, all branches, and all commits.

	git remote - The git remote command lets you create, view, and delete connections to other repositories. The git remote command allows accessing the connection between remote and local. 
			
				git remote
			
			The given command is providing the remote name as the origin. Origin is the default name for the remote server, which is given by Git.

		     i) git remote -v:

		        Git remote supports a specific option -v to show the URLs that Git has stored as a short name. These short names are used during the reading and write operation.
 		        Here, -v stands for verbose.
			origin https://github.com/ashutosh88/example1.git
			
		     ii) git remote add:
			 
			When we fetch a repository implicitly, git adds a remote for the repository. Also, we can explicitly add a remote for a repository. 
			We can add a remote as a shot nickname or short name. To add remote as a short name, follow the below command:
				git remote add <short name><remote URL>  
		
			you can now pull a repository using its short name instead of its remote URL. Now, the repository master branch can be accessed through a short name.

		    iii) Git remove remote:

			 You can remove a remote connection from a repository. To remove a connection, perform the git remote command with remove or rm option. 
			 It can be done as:
				
				git remote rm <destination>  or git remote remove <destination>

		    iv) git rename remote:

			Git allows renaming the remote server name so that you can use a short name in place of the remote server name. Below command is used to rename the remote server:

				git remote rename <old name><new name> 
	
	git pull -  The git pull command fetches and downloads content from the remote repository and integrates changes into the local repository.
 

			git pull <remote branch URL>

	git push -  The git push command uploads content from a local repository to a remote repository. Pushing refers to the process of moving commits from one repository to another.
 
			git push origin master 
			

